Hey there!
Are you an artist, author, creator or a cultural worker?
If you are, you probably heard about copyright before
but you might still not really understand it very well...
Perhaps we can help with that.
Here we'll show you how copyright affects cultural and creative work
and how you can handle it.
So first, let's be clear about what we mean
by Cultural and Creative Work.
Studies show that if you are an artist or a cultural worker
you like to dare, try new things,
you have a risky, artistic spirit
and the creative act is essential to you.
You see your work as a positive activity that you enjoy,
rather than something you HAVE to do to earn money.
Creative work is not just about financial income
it involves other types of rewards, such as
the autonomy to manage your time
or the freedom to make your own choices.
You probably are highly educated
unfortunately this usually has little influence
on your creative career.
You most likely work part time
and may hold multiple jobs to complement
the low and uncertain income
from your artistic work.
And like you,
there are a lot of other creators
-maybe too many for the market-
so there's a lot for audiences and clients
to choose from.
And as work supply increases
payments tend to fall.
Finally, to develop a strong creative career,
you need to meet the right people
who can help you gain a good reputation.
Those networks also influence
your artistic practice somehow,
so you usually need to be very flexible and adaptable.
So although cultural and creative work
might be seen as a positive kind of work,
it also results in a lot of uncertainty.
Only very few creators and cultural workers
manage to reach the spotlight and become
so-called superstars.
And, once they do,
their work becomes more of a response to market pressures
than the result of artistic inspiration.
But what's copyright got to do with this?